# CS 230: Deep Learning - Stanford University

Title: A Two-Step, Two-Pronged Approach to Binary Classification of Melanoma

Abstract: 
Screening for skin cancer involves either an external examination by a physician or a biopsy of the lesion. These methods are either subjective or invasive, therefore there is a need for an effective screening technique that does not involve subjective examination or invasive techniques. Many people have turned to deep learning as a solution to this problem. Many existing methods include training CNN ensemble models, image segmentation, adding metadata, and using transfer learning in order to improve classification accuracy [3]. In this paper, we use the SIIC-ISIC 2020 Challenge dataset and take a two-step, two-pronged approach to binary classification of images of skin lesions as either melanoma or no melanoma [4]. The first step involves using a U-Net trained on the HAM10000 dataset to produce masks of the images of the ISIC2020 dataset prior to CNN input [5-7]. The mask and image are then concatenated and inputted into a CNN architecture. Based on literature exploration, we implement a VGG model, a Siamese model adopted from Messina et al, and an EfficientNet model that was used in the winning solution to achieve an AUC of 0.9442 [12, 15]. Additionally, we concatenate one-hot-encoded metadata and the output of the CNN model and put it into a final two-layer Dense network. Our best CNN architecture is the Siamese model, and combined with the rest of the pipeline, achieved a test AUC score of 0.831. The results show the potential for a combination of methods and pipelines to be used in binary image classification for skin lesions. Further work is needed to truly explore how a two-step, two-pronged approach can be best engineered.
